[6]Research

   At Phrased & Confused, we’re unashamedly proud of our data geek
   anoraks. However, our geekiness is offset by a strong belief that
   research is a means to an end, rather than an end in itself. When we
   set out to do some research it’s because we want to know the answer to
   some questions that are bugging us, or because we want to get inside a
   particular issue, or know more about our audiences. We want to know all
   this because it helps us to measure what we’re doing, and to plan what
   we might do in the future.

   When we’re not working on bringing great music and spoken word to you,
   some of us spend our time crunching those numbers and chewing the
   spoken word cud. Over the years we’ve done various pieces of research.
   Here’s a summary of some of them…


   Audience Research

   We’re big on audience research. We have to be, because our aim with
   Phrased & Confused is to attract new people to spoken word, and we need
   to know if all our hard efforts are doing that. So, we try to come up
   with lateral thinking ways of getting you guys to tell us more about
   you and what you think of us. It’s our way of getting us introduced to
   each other.

   Here are some of the things you’ve told us at [7]Summer Sundae in 2009…

   • 51% of you were aged 25 or under
   • 91% of you had been to more than 3 music gigs in the previous 12
   months, and 42% to more than 10
   • Meanwhile, 57% of you said you’d been to ‘1 or 2’ spoken word events
   in the same period – but anecdotal feedback suggests that this may well
   have been at our own P&C tent or fringe gig.
   • Only 19% of you had been to a spoken word tent at another festival,
   suggesting that Phrased & Confused reaches audiences other spoken word
   brands can’t!
   • 64% of you said that having checked out Phrased & Confused you
   intended to go to further spoken word events in the future
   • 64% of you had listened to artist tracks on the Phrased & Confused
   USB wristband you picked up at the festival


   Phrased & Confused TV – Feasibility Research

   In 2009 we secured Arts Council England support for a research project
   to “explore the potential for a bespoke digital platform for spoken
   word, which would harness the audience development potential of digital
   technology, enable UK-based artists to develop relationships with
   global consumers, able to ‘mainline’ their live literature on demand,
   via their PCs, MP3 players or mobile phones”. Later that year, we
   collected feedback from our festival audiences, and in the first half
   of 2010 we turned our attention to those working in the sector. We used
   this feedback to help us model how a digital platform (provisionally
   called Phrased & Confused TV) might best be delivered, scoping out the
   platform’s functionality, testing and spec-ing out the most appropriate
   ‘front’ and back end’ models for the platform and exploring income
   generation opportunities. We then moved onto drill down in more detail
   into: vision and aims; the offer to artists, arts organisations and
   audiences; the platform model; skills development programme; content;
   evaluation, audience and user research and benchmarking; marketing; HR;
   timetable, and financial projections.

   All this work means that we’re confident that we’ve got the P&C TV
   ‘offer’ right. We’ve ‘walked through’ the project to put together a
   detailed operational structure and job descriptions, budget and
   timeline. So far, so feasible. Turning to the figures, our research
   into the potential to generate earned income potential confirmed that,
   at present, it’s pretty nigh impossible for niche platforms such as
   this to do this to any real extent. It’s a tough time to be fundraising
   and the biggest question mark is over financial viability. Our
   fundraising research points to a number of possibilities, but success
   here – and the feasibility of the project – will depend on: potential
   funders’ willingness and ability to join us in testing our proposition.
   We’re actively working on all of this now, so join our mailing list to
   stay up to date with developments.
