   The architecture of the imagination

   Adrian-Henri1

   How to be ambitious and bold without being gimmicky?

   How to capture the chaotic ‘happening’ spirit of [11]Adrian Henri while
   saying something coherent?

   How to spark off the Mersey poets’ work without writing something
   hackneyed?

   These are the exciting maddening challenges I’ve been exploring so far
   in the development of Liverpool I love your horny handed tons of soil,
   a collaborative performance bringing together spoken word, live music
   and digital art forms. The title is taken from a fragment poem by
   Adrian Henri and captures the passion, energy and sense of longing that
   I want to put on stage when we perform 15 mins from the piece at the
   [12]Liverpool Philharmonic Music Rooms on March 18th. The piece will
   look at what’s been lost and found in the re-sculpting of the Liverpool
   landscape in the past fifty years, exploring the layering of past
   present and imagination when we look at the buildings around us. I came
   across this quotation from Adrian Henri last week and it reassured me
   that we’re on the right track with our thematic ideas:

   ‘The architecture which springs most directly from the imagination, and
   which appeals most directly to it, belongs in one way or another to
   naïve or primitive consciousness. It is not conceived as a finished
   work, but grows; it works by extension, addition, subtraction.’

   And maybe that’s the way we’re going to put our piece together too:
   bringing together seemingly disparate parts, allowing something to grow
   uninhibited, following our instincts. While I’m working with long time
   musical collaborators  Vidar Norheim and Martin Heslop, I’m also being
   pushed way out of my comfort zone through conversations with digital
   makers at [13]DOES Liverpool led by Adrian McEwen, a man capable of
   connecting almost anything to the internet (see his ‘internet of
   things’ project). If there’s a way to connect poetry to digital
   robotics then I promise we’ll find it.

   I’ve also been talking psycho-geography with Jonathan Sharma of [14]K2
   architects who showed me architectural images, describing the way
   they’re built up through layering (what was there, what will be there,
   photographs, pencil drawings etc): a pleasingly tidy metaphor for our
   layering of feeling and perspective in relation to the streets we live
   in.

   Just to make the mix of ideas richer, on March 5rd Vidar and I will
   join visual artists Louise Flooks and Holly * for a session with
   [15]Unity Theatre’s [16]Splatterdays kids group, uncovering how the
   city looks through a child’s eyes and how it might be re-imagined
   through play. They’ll be building 3-D models of landscapes and houses,
   drawing their ideal Liverpool. I want to know how free they feel in the
   Liverpool, whether they have enough space, whether they believe they
   can have adventures and where those adventures could take them.

   So with just three weeks to solve this brilliant muddle, I’m
   channelling the anarchic spirit of Adrian Henri and trusting that out
   of this collision of the primitive and the high-tech, of poetry and
   code, of old and new Liverpool, something whole and beautiful will
   spring.
