[7]About
   Imagine you’ve been shot into space. You’re going to be counting the
   years on your fingers. To fill up some of your time, between the
   science and flying, what would you take – music or books? Or would you
   have to take both? There’s absolutely no doubt that we’d want to take
   them both, or rather that our very clever, never needs re-charging iPod
   would be full of both poems and tunes.
   Phrased & Confused takes words and music – poets and musicians – and
   mixes them up to create gorgeous lyrical feasts for music lovers and
   secret wordsmiths alike. It’s not necessarily clever, but it is a whole
   lot of fun…
   Since 2004 we’ve been exploring our hunch that music fans can be
   encouraged to attend more live literature events, under the banner
   Phrased & Confused. With 3 successful national tours, one of events and
   a regular presence on the festival circuit already under our belts,
   we’ve learned a lot along the way about who comes and why and about how
   music promoters are interested in getting more involved in live
   literature.
   You can find out more on the [8]events and [9]research pages.
   Until 2010, P&C was a project within the ‘stable’ of the hub, an arts
   development practice which combines research, consultancy and training
   with work as a creative producer (see [10]www.thehubuk.com). In late
   2010, we decided that the time had come for us to take the stabilisers
   off the P&C bike, and to go it alone, and so we established Phrased &
   Confused as an independent organisation. This decision reflected the
   track record we’d established since 2004, and also the growing ambition
   of our programme, along with our desire to develop year-round
   professional development support for promoters around the country, and
   – finally – the scale of the opportunity presented by the Phrased &
   Confused TV digital platform. You can find out more about this on our
   [11]professional development and [12]research pages.
   The architecture of the imagination
   Adrian-Henri1
   How to be ambitious and bold without being gimmicky?
   How to capture the chaotic ‘happening’ spirit of [11]Adrian Henri while
   saying something coherent?
   How to spark off the Mersey poets’ work without writing something
   hackneyed?
   These are the exciting maddening challenges I’ve been exploring so far
   in the development of Liverpool I love your horny handed tons of soil,
   a collaborative performance bringing together spoken word, live music
   and digital art forms. The title is taken from a fragment poem by
   Adrian Henri and captures the passion, energy and sense of longing that
   I want to put on stage when we perform 15 mins from the piece at the
   [12]Liverpool Philharmonic Music Rooms on March 18th. The piece will
   look at what’s been lost and found in the re-sculpting of the Liverpool
   landscape in the past fifty years, exploring the layering of past
   present and imagination when we look at the buildings around us. I came
   across this quotation from Adrian Henri last week and it reassured me
   that we’re on the right track with our thematic ideas:
   ‘The architecture which springs most directly from the imagination, and
   which appeals most directly to it, belongs in one way or another to
   naïve or primitive consciousness. It is not conceived as a finished
   work, but grows; it works by extension, addition, subtraction.’
   And maybe that’s the way we’re going to put our piece together too:
   bringing together seemingly disparate parts, allowing something to grow
   uninhibited, following our instincts. While I’m working with long time
   musical collaborators  Vidar Norheim and Martin Heslop, I’m also being
   pushed way out of my comfort zone through conversations with digital
   makers at [13]DOES Liverpool led by Adrian McEwen, a man capable of
   connecting almost anything to the internet (see his ‘internet of
   things’ project). If there’s a way to connect poetry to digital
   robotics then I promise we’ll find it.
   I’ve also been talking psycho-geography with Jonathan Sharma of [14]K2
   architects who showed me architectural images, describing the way
   they’re built up through layering (what was there, what will be there,
   photographs, pencil drawings etc): a pleasingly tidy metaphor for our
   layering of feeling and perspective in relation to the streets we live
   in.
   Just to make the mix of ideas richer, on March 5rd Vidar and I will
   join visual artists Louise Flooks and Holly * for a session with
   [15]Unity Theatre’s [16]Splatterdays kids group, uncovering how the
   city looks through a child’s eyes and how it might be re-imagined
   through play. They’ll be building 3-D models of landscapes and houses,
   drawing their ideal Liverpool. I want to know how free they feel in the
   Liverpool, whether they have enough space, whether they believe they
   can have adventures and where those adventures could take them.
   So with just three weeks to solve this brilliant muddle, I’m
   channelling the anarchic spirit of Adrian Henri and trusting that out
   of this collision of the primitive and the high-tech, of poetry and
   code, of old and new Liverpool, something whole and beautiful will
   spring.
[6]Research
   At Phrased & Confused, we’re unashamedly proud of our data geek
   anoraks. However, our geekiness is offset by a strong belief that
   research is a means to an end, rather than an end in itself. When we
   set out to do some research it’s because we want to know the answer to
   some questions that are bugging us, or because we want to get inside a
   particular issue, or know more about our audiences. We want to know all
   this because it helps us to measure what we’re doing, and to plan what
   we might do in the future.
   When we’re not working on bringing great music and spoken word to you,
   some of us spend our time crunching those numbers and chewing the
   spoken word cud. Over the years we’ve done various pieces of research.
   Here’s a summary of some of them…
   Audience Research
   We’re big on audience research. We have to be, because our aim with
   Phrased & Confused is to attract new people to spoken word, and we need
   to know if all our hard efforts are doing that. So, we try to come up
   with lateral thinking ways of getting you guys to tell us more about
   you and what you think of us. It’s our way of getting us introduced to
   each other.
   Here are some of the things you’ve told us at [7]Summer Sundae in 2009…
   • 51% of you were aged 25 or under
   • 91% of you had been to more than 3 music gigs in the previous 12
   months, and 42% to more than 10
   • Meanwhile, 57% of you said you’d been to ‘1 or 2’ spoken word events
   in the same period – but anecdotal feedback suggests that this may well
   have been at our own P&C tent or fringe gig.
   • Only 19% of you had been to a spoken word tent at another festival,
   suggesting that Phrased & Confused reaches audiences other spoken word
   brands can’t!
   • 64% of you said that having checked out Phrased & Confused you
   intended to go to further spoken word events in the future
   • 64% of you had listened to artist tracks on the Phrased & Confused
   USB wristband you picked up at the festival
   Phrased & Confused TV – Feasibility Research
   In 2009 we secured Arts Council England support for a research project
   to “explore the potential for a bespoke digital platform for spoken
   word, which would harness the audience development potential of digital
   technology, enable UK-based artists to develop relationships with
   global consumers, able to ‘mainline’ their live literature on demand,
   via their PCs, MP3 players or mobile phones”. Later that year, we
   collected feedback from our festival audiences, and in the first half
   of 2010 we turned our attention to those working in the sector. We used
   this feedback to help us model how a digital platform (provisionally
   called Phrased & Confused TV) might best be delivered, scoping out the
   platform’s functionality, testing and spec-ing out the most appropriate
   ‘front’ and back end’ models for the platform and exploring income
   generation opportunities. We then moved onto drill down in more detail
   into: vision and aims; the offer to artists, arts organisations and
   audiences; the platform model; skills development programme; content;
   evaluation, audience and user research and benchmarking; marketing; HR;
   timetable, and financial projections.
   All this work means that we’re confident that we’ve got the P&C TV
   ‘offer’ right. We’ve ‘walked through’ the project to put together a
   detailed operational structure and job descriptions, budget and
   timeline. So far, so feasible. Turning to the figures, our research
   into the potential to generate earned income potential confirmed that,
   at present, it’s pretty nigh impossible for niche platforms such as
   this to do this to any real extent. It’s a tough time to be fundraising
   and the biggest question mark is over financial viability. Our
   fundraising research points to a number of possibilities, but success
   here – and the feasibility of the project – will depend on: potential
   funders’ willingness and ability to join us in testing our proposition.
   We’re actively working on all of this now, so join our mailing list to
   stay up to date with developments.
[7]Skills Development
   As well as being creative producers, the Phrased & Confused team also
   has a strong track record for its training, mentoring and broader
   professional development programmes. Since 2006, we’ve been running
   specific projects for spoken word artists, promoters and producers,
   including a unique commissioning scheme that helps artists to create
   new work, and a training programme that helps emerging promoters to
   develop their business-related skills. It’s work that we really believe
   in, not only because of its value to those we support and the impact it
   has on the wider scene, but also because it enables us to share what
   we’ve learnt and – selfishly – it helps us to get better at what we do
   too!
   Phrased & Confused artist commissions
   We’ve been commissioning artists since 2008 to create new work that
   explores the meeting place between music and spoken word, and in that
   time have supported more than 20 artists and musicians to develop their
   stage craft, performance and presentation. [8]Find out more…
   “It was a really supportive process with Phrased and Confused. It’s
   been a really, really amazing experience where we’ve been able to
   concentrate on being performers.” – Sifundo Msebele
   Developing artists via our tours
   When we go out on the road, it’s not enough for our artists to simply
   do what they normally do. We work with artists who are up for something
   new, and help them to develop new material together, either from
   scratch or by improvising on existing poems or songs they bring to the
   table. [9]Find out more…
   Supporting promoters around the country
   Our experience tells us that it’s promoters and producers who are just
   as key to a healthy touring circuit as artists – in what ever art form.
   So, we’re currently building on work we’ve previously done to support
   the development of promoters and producers around the country and
   undertaking a new piece of research to see what will most benefit the
   national scene in terms of a professional development programme for
   spoken word producers.
[7]Skills Development
   As well as being creative producers, the Phrased & Confused team also
   has a strong track record for its training, mentoring and broader
   professional development programmes. Since 2006, we’ve been running
   specific projects for spoken word artists, promoters and producers,
   including a unique commissioning scheme that helps artists to create
   new work, and a training programme that helps emerging promoters to
   develop their business-related skills. It’s work that we really believe
   in, not only because of its value to those we support and the impact it
   has on the wider scene, but also because it enables us to share what
   we’ve learnt and – selfishly – it helps us to get better at what we do
   too!
   Phrased & Confused artist commissions
   We’ve been commissioning artists since 2008 to create new work that
   explores the meeting place between music and spoken word, and in that
   time have supported more than 20 artists and musicians to develop their
   stage craft, performance and presentation. [8]Find out more…
   “It was a really supportive process with Phrased and Confused. It’s
   been a really, really amazing experience where we’ve been able to
   concentrate on being performers.” – Sifundo Msebele
   Developing artists via our tours
   When we go out on the road, it’s not enough for our artists to simply
   do what they normally do. We work with artists who are up for something
   new, and help them to develop new material together, either from
   scratch or by improvising on existing poems or songs they bring to the
   table. [9]Find out more…
   Supporting promoters around the country
   Our experience tells us that it’s promoters and producers who are just
   as key to a healthy touring circuit as artists – in what ever art form.
   So, we’re currently building on work we’ve previously done to support
   the development of promoters and producers around the country and
   undertaking a new piece of research to see what will most benefit the
   national scene in terms of a professional development programme for
   spoken word producers.
