[7]Skills Development

   As well as being creative producers, the Phrased & Confused team also
   has a strong track record for its training, mentoring and broader
   professional development programmes. Since 2006, we’ve been running
   specific projects for spoken word artists, promoters and producers,
   including a unique commissioning scheme that helps artists to create
   new work, and a training programme that helps emerging promoters to
   develop their business-related skills. It’s work that we really believe
   in, not only because of its value to those we support and the impact it
   has on the wider scene, but also because it enables us to share what
   we’ve learnt and – selfishly – it helps us to get better at what we do
   too!

   Phrased & Confused artist commissions

   We’ve been commissioning artists since 2008 to create new work that
   explores the meeting place between music and spoken word, and in that
   time have supported more than 20 artists and musicians to develop their
   stage craft, performance and presentation. [8]Find out more…

   “It was a really supportive process with Phrased and Confused. It’s
   been a really, really amazing experience where we’ve been able to
   concentrate on being performers.” – Sifundo Msebele

   Developing artists via our tours

   When we go out on the road, it’s not enough for our artists to simply
   do what they normally do. We work with artists who are up for something
   new, and help them to develop new material together, either from
   scratch or by improvising on existing poems or songs they bring to the
   table. [9]Find out more…

   Supporting promoters around the country

   Our experience tells us that it’s promoters and producers who are just
   as key to a healthy touring circuit as artists – in what ever art form.
   So, we’re currently building on work we’ve previously done to support
   the development of promoters and producers around the country and
   undertaking a new piece of research to see what will most benefit the
   national scene in terms of a professional development programme for
   spoken word producers.
