[7]About

   Imagine you’ve been shot into space. You’re going to be counting the
   years on your fingers. To fill up some of your time, between the
   science and flying, what would you take – music or books? Or would you
   have to take both? There’s absolutely no doubt that we’d want to take
   them both, or rather that our very clever, never needs re-charging iPod
   would be full of both poems and tunes.

   Phrased & Confused takes words and music – poets and musicians – and
   mixes them up to create gorgeous lyrical feasts for music lovers and
   secret wordsmiths alike. It’s not necessarily clever, but it is a whole
   lot of fun…

   Since 2004 we’ve been exploring our hunch that music fans can be
   encouraged to attend more live literature events, under the banner
   Phrased & Confused. With 3 successful national tours, one of events and
   a regular presence on the festival circuit already under our belts,
   we’ve learned a lot along the way about who comes and why and about how
   music promoters are interested in getting more involved in live
   literature.

   You can find out more on the [8]events and [9]research pages.

   Until 2010, P&C was a project within the ‘stable’ of the hub, an arts
   development practice which combines research, consultancy and training
   with work as a creative producer (see [10]www.thehubuk.com). In late
   2010, we decided that the time had come for us to take the stabilisers
   off the P&C bike, and to go it alone, and so we established Phrased &
   Confused as an independent organisation. This decision reflected the
   track record we’d established since 2004, and also the growing ambition
   of our programme, along with our desire to develop year-round
   professional development support for promoters around the country, and
   – finally – the scale of the opportunity presented by the Phrased &
   Confused TV digital platform. You can find out more about this on our
   [11]professional development and [12]research pages.
